---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "yandex_organizationmanager_idp_application_saml_signature_certificate Data Source - yandex"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  A signature certificate for SAML applications.
---

# yandex_organizationmanager_idp_application_saml_signature_certificate (Data Source)

A signature certificate for SAML applications.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `id` (String) ID of the signature certificate to return.
- `signature_certificate_id` (String) ID of the signature certificate to return.
- `timeouts` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--timeouts))

### Read-Only

- `application_id` (String) ID of the SAML application that the signature certificate belongs to.
- `created_at` (String) Creation timestamp.
- `data` (String) Certificate data in PEM format.
- `description` (String) Description of the signature certificate.
- `fingerprint` (String) SHA256-fingerprint of the signature certificate.
- `name` (String) Name of the signature certificate.
- `not_after` (String) Time after which the signature certificate is not valid.
- `not_before` (String) Time before which the signature certificate is not valid.
- `status` (String) Current status of the signature certificate.

<a id="nestedatt--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).
- `delete` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Setting a timeout for a Delete operation is only applicable if changes are saved into state before the destroy operation occurs.
- `read` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Read operations occur during any refresh or planning operation when refresh is enabled.
- `update` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).
