---
subcategory: "Cloud Organization"
page_title: "Yandex: yandex_organizationmanager_saml_federation"
description: |-
  Allows management of a single SAML Federation within an existing Yandex Cloud Organization.
---

# yandex_organizationmanager_saml_federation (Resource)

Allows management of a single SAML Federation within an existing Yandex Cloud Organization.

## Example usage

```terraform
//
// Create a new OrganizationManager SAML Federation.
//
resource "yandex_organizationmanager_saml_federation" "saml_fed" {
  name            = "my-federation"
  description     = "My new SAML federation"
  organization_id = "sdf4*********3fr"
  sso_url         = "https://my-sso.url"
  issuer          = "my-issuer"
  sso_binding     = "POST"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `issuer` (String) The ID of the IdP server to be used for authentication. The IdP server also responds to IAM with this ID after the user authenticates.
- `name` (String) The resource name.
- `organization_id` (String) The organization to attach this SAML Federation to.
- `sso_binding` (String) Single sign-on endpoint binding type. Most Identity Providers support the `POST` binding type. SAML Binding is a mapping of a SAML protocol message onto standard messaging formats and/or communications protocols.
- `sso_url` (String) Single sign-on (SSO) endpoint URL. Specify the link to the IdP login page here.

### Optional

- `auto_create_account_on_login` (Boolean) Add new users automatically on successful authentication. The user will get the `resource-manager.clouds.member` role automatically, but you need to grant other roles to them. If the value is `false`, users who aren't added to the cloud can't log in, even if they have authenticated on your server.
- `case_insensitive_name_ids` (Boolean) Use case-insensitive name IDs.
- `cookie_max_age` (String) The lifetime of a Browser cookie in seconds. If the cookie is still valid, the management console authenticates the user immediately and redirects them to the home page. The default value is `8h`.
- `description` (String) The resource description.
- `labels` (Map of String) A set of key/value label pairs which assigned to resource.
- `security_settings` (Block List, Max: 1) Federation security settings. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--security_settings))
- `timeouts` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))

### Read-Only

- `created_at` (String) The creation timestamp of the resource.
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

<a id="nestedblock--security_settings"></a>
### Nested Schema for `security_settings`

Optional:

- `encrypted_assertions` (Boolean) Enable encrypted assertions.
- `force_authn` (Boolean) Force authentication on session expiration


<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String)
- `delete` (String)
- `read` (String)
- `update` (String)

## Import

The resource can be imported by using their `resource ID`. For getting the resource ID you can use Yandex Cloud [Web Console](https://console.yandex.cloud) or [YC CLI](https://yandex.cloud/docs/cli/quickstart).

```shell
# terraform import yandex_organizationmanager_saml_federation.<resource Name> <resource Id>
terraform import yandex_organizationmanager_saml_federation.saml_fed ...
```
